Update "Create Account" tutorial to use RPC (#1786)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/build/guides/transactions/create-account.mdx

_Before we get started with working with Stellar in code, consider going through the following examples using the [Stellar Lab](https://lab.stellar.org). The lab allows you create accounts, fund accounts on the Stellar test network, build transactions, run any operation, and inspect responses from Horizon via the Endpoint Explorer._

> [Accounts](../../../learn/fundamentals/stellar-data-structures/accounts.mdx) are a fundamental building block of Stellar: they hold all your balances, allow you to send and receive payments, and let you place offers to buy and sell assets. Since pretty much everything on Stellar is in some way tied to an account, the first thing you generally need to do when you start developing is create one. This beginner-level tutorial walks through the four building blocks you'll need: generating keys, funding an account, creating another account, and fetching balances.

Reviewer: this sentence seemed like a run-on. here is one alternative for consideration.
```suggestion
[Account](../../../learn/fundamentals/stellar-data-structures/accounts.mdx) is a fundamental building block of Stellar. It provides secure identity and maintains balances of your assets and is required to participate on the Stellar network. This beginner-level tutorial walks through several key concepts of an account: generating key pair, funding, creating another account, and fetching balances.
```

Reviewer: After reviewing, wanted to revisit this section with a follow-on suggestion - break each of these four concepts into sub-bullets with their copy and then consolidate to a single example program afterwards which performs all:

```
Create an Account:
  * Create a keypair - copy here...
  * Funding  - copy here...
  * Create another Account - copy here...
  * Fetch Balances - copy here ...
  
Examples:
  js, go, java, python
     
Now that you’ve got an account ....
```

Author: You mean don't have examples per-section and just have copy there, then one big example at the end?

Author: Honestly a great idea. Gave it a shot in 0d5024b950bc8c185cfe10c4e9d54da53fb184ff, wdyt?

Reviewer: lgtm. concise!

only nit is the mention of 'four' building blocks but it's down to 3 now. 
do you want to have consistent link texts matching the section titles?  i.e. the building block link is stated as 'generating keys' and the linked section title is  slightly different 'Create a Keypair'

Author: I’m okay with the “mid sentence copy” vs “title copy” being different! Fitting the titles exactly ruins the flow.

## Create a Keypair

Stellar uses public key cryptography to secure every transaction: each Stellar account has a keypair consisting of a **public key** and a **secret key**. The public key is always safe to share — other people need it to identify your account and verify that you authorized a transaction. It's like an email address. The secret key, however, is private information that proves you own — and gives you access to — your account. It's like a password, and you should never share it with anyone.

Before creating an account, you need to generate your own keypair:

<CodeExample>

```js
import { Keypair } from "@stellar/stellar-sdk";

// create a completely new and unique pair of keys
// see more about KeyPair objects: https://stellar.github.io/js-stellar-sdk/Keypair.html
const parent = Keypair.random();

console.log("Secret:", parent.secret());
console.log("Public:", parent.publicKey());
```

```java
// create a completely new and unique pair of keys.

> // see more about KeyPair objects: https://stellar.github.io/java-stellar-sdk/org/stellar/sdk/KeyPair.html

Reviewer: this link never worked. it also highlights awareness at this point to change any ref's to java sdk repo to be - https://github.com/lightsail-network/java-stellar-sdk

const server = new Server("https://soroban-testnet.stellar.org");
const testnetUsdc = new Asset(
  "USDC",
  "GBBD47IF6LWK7P7MDEVSCWR7DPUWV3NY3DTQEVFL4NAT4AQH3ZLLFLA5",
);

async function main() {
  const parent = Keypair.random();
  const response = await server.requestAirdrop(parent.publicKey());
  console.log("SUCCESS! You have a new account:\n", response);

  const parentAccount = await server.getAccount(parent.publicKey());
  const child = Keypair.random();

  const tx = new TransactionBuilder(parentAccount, {
    fee: BASE_FEE,
    networkPassphrase: Networks.TESTNET,
  })
    .addOperation(
      Operation.createAccount({
        destination: child.publicKey(),
        startingBalance: "5",
      }),
    )
    .addOperation(Operation.changeTrust({ asset: testnetUsdc }))
    .setTimeout(180)
    .build();

  tx.sign(parent);

  const sendResp = await server.sendTransaction(tx);
  if (sendResp.status !== "PENDING") {
    throw new Error(`Transaction submission failed: ${sendResp.status}`);
  }

  const txResp = await server.pollTransaction(sendResp.hash);
  if (txResp.status !== "SUCCESS") {
    throw new Error(`Transaction failed with status ${txResp.status}`);
  }

>   console.log("Created the new account", child.publicKey());

Reviewer 2: Erm?
Perhaps a better thing is to call server.getAccount and fetch the account from RPC.
```
 const createdAccount = await server.getAccount(child.publicKey());
console.log("...")
```

Reviewer 2: Pl ignore previous comment
Had forgotten that there is the fetchAccount section below in the same page

Author: Yeah I mean if the transaction succeeds the account is certainly there so this `log` is accurate. Fetching is only useful for e.g. txn building or if you care about balances.

  log("SUCCESS! You have a new account:\n%s", friendbotResponse);

  Account parentAccount = SERVER.loadAccount(parent.getAccountId());

  KeyPair child = KeyPair.random();
  AssetTypeCreditAlphaNum12 usdcAsset = Asset.createNonNative("USDC", TESTNET_USDC_ISSUER);

  Transaction transaction = new TransactionBuilder(parentAccount, Network.TESTNET)
    .setBaseFee(Transaction.MIN_BASE_FEE)
    .setTimeout(TransactionBuilder.TIMEOUT_INFINITE)
    .addOperation(new CreateAccountOperation.Builder(child.getAccountId(), "5").build())
    .addOperation(new ChangeTrustOperation.Builder(usdcAsset, TESTNET_USDC_ISSUER).build())
    .build();
  transaction.sign(parent);

  SendTransactionResponse sendResp = sendTransaction(transaction);
  GetTransactionResponse txResp = SERVER.pollTransaction(sendResp.getHash());
  long ledgerSeq = txResp.getLedger() != null ? txResp.getLedger() : txResp.getLatestLedger();
  log("Transaction confirmed in ledger %d", ledgerSeq);
  log("Created the new account %s", child.getAccountId());
}

private static String requestAirdrop(String accountId) throws IOException, InterruptedException {
  HttpRequest request = HttpRequest.newBuilder()

>     .uri(URI.create(FRIENDBOT_URL + accountId))

Reviewer: does the java run, I don't see where FRIENDBOT_URL is defined, but could be missing something? This could get freindbot url dynamically from `rpc.getNetwork` instead?  did a similar thing in [send/recv](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs/pull/1788/files#diff-c72f39490aa000a7c8c92f4596cfe6edaf75a8d0ce55156a85239b05341e96ccR259)

  tx, err := txnbuild.NewTransaction(txnbuild.TransactionParams{
    SourceAccount:        parentAccount,
    IncrementSequenceNum: true,
    BaseFee:              txnbuild.MinBaseFee,
    Preconditions: txnbuild.Preconditions{
      TimeBounds: txnbuild.NewInfiniteTimeout(),
    },
    Operations: []txnbuild.Operation{
      &txnbuild.CreateAccount{
        Destination: child.Address(),
        Amount:      "420",
      },
      // Not needed for creation, just used in the later example
      &txnbuild.ChangeTrust{
        Line: usdcAsset.MustToChangeTrustAsset(),
      },
    },
  })
  check(err)

  tx, err = tx.Sign(network.TestNetworkPassphrase, parent)
  check(err)

  resp := submitAndAwait(ctx, cli, tx)
  log.Printf("Transaction confirmed in ledger %d", resp.Ledger)
  log.Printf("Created the new account %s", child.Address())
}

func requestFunds(address string) string {
  resp, err := http.Get(friendbotURL + url.QueryEscape(address))
  defer resp.Body.Close()
  check(err)

  body, err := io.ReadAll(resp.Body)
  check(err)
  if resp.StatusCode >= 400 {
    log.Fatalf("friendbot returned %s: %s", resp.Status, string(body))
  }

  return string(body)
}

> ```

Author: good catch - each example should create an account via friendbot and via `CreateAccount`; Go is missing the former. Added in 844b4bbe

  transaction.sign(parent);

  SendTransactionResponse sendResp = sendTransaction(transaction);
  GetTransactionResponse txResp = SERVER.pollTransaction(sendResp.getHash());
  long ledgerSeq = txResp.getLedger() != null ? txResp.getLedger() : txResp.getLatestLedger();
  log("Transaction confirmed in ledger %d", ledgerSeq);
  log("Created the new account %s", child.getAccountId());
}

private static String requestAirdrop(String accountId) throws IOException, InterruptedException {
  HttpRequest request = HttpRequest.newBuilder()
    .uri(URI.create(FRIENDBOT_URL + accountId))
    .timeout(Duration.ofSeconds(30))
    .GET()
    .build();
  HttpResponse<String> response = HTTP.send(request, HttpResponse.BodyHandlers.ofString());
  check(response.statusCode() / 100 == 2, "Friendbot returned " + response.statusCode() + ": " + response.body());
  return response.body();
}
```

```go
package main

import (
  "context"
  "fmt"
  "io"
  "log"
  "net/http"
  "net/url"

  "github.com/stellar/go/keypair"
  "github.com/stellar/go/network"
  "github.com/stellar/go/txnbuild"

  "github.com/stellar/stellar-rpc/client"
)

const (
  rpcURL                = "https://soroban-testnet.stellar.org"

>   friendbotURL          = "https://friendbot.stellar.org/?addr="

Reviewer: can we avoid h/c friendbot urls in favor of `rpc.getNetwork` ?

Reviewer 2: sample code avaiable in `transactions/claimable-balances.mdx`

    network_passphrase=Network.TESTNET_NETWORK_PASSPHRASE,
    base_fee=TransactionBuilder.BASE_FEE,
  )
  .add_time_bounds(0, 0)
  .append_operation(
    CreateAccount(destination=child.public_key, starting_balance="5")
  )
  .append_operation(ChangeTrust(asset=usdc_asset))
  .build()
)
tx.sign(parent)

send_resp = send_transaction(tx)
tx_resp = poll_transaction(send_resp.hash)
ledger_seq = tx_resp.ledger or tx_resp.latest_ledger
print(f"Transaction confirmed in ledger {ledger_seq}")
print(f"Created the new account {child.public_key}")
```

</CodeExample>

Now for the last step: getting the account’s details and checking its balance. Accounts can carry multiple balances — one for each type of currency they hold. Because the Stellar network stores data in a key-value store, you must either (a) know which assets you hold or (b) let your users add them.

<CodeExample>

```js
async function fetchBalances(address: string) {
  // Assume that `server` and `testnetUsdc` still exist from before
  const accountEntry = await server.getAccountEntry(address);
  console.log("Balance for account: " + address);
  console.log("XLM:", accountEntry.balance().toString());

> 

Reviewer 2: >one for each type of currency they hold
`s#currency#asset#g`

log("Balance for account %s", parent.getAccountId());
log("XLM: %d", nativeBalance);

long trustlineBalance = getTrustlineBalance(parent.getAccountId(), usdcAsset);
log("USDC trustline balance (raw): %d", trustlineBalance);

String sacAmount = getSacBalance(
  TESTNET_USDC_CONTRACT,
  AssetTypeNative.INSTANCE,
  Network.TESTNET);
log("XLM in USDC contract (raw): %s", sacAmount);
```

```go
package main

import (
  "log"
  "context"

  "github.com/stellar/go/xdr"

  "github.com/stellar/stellar-rpc/client"
  "github.com/stellar/stellar-rpc/protocol"
)

const (
  rpcURL                = "https://soroban-testnet.stellar.org"
  testnetUSDCContractID = "CBIELTK6YBZJU5UP2WWQEUCYKLPU6AUNZ2BQ4WWFEIE3USCIHMXQDAMA"
)

func main() {
  ctx := context.TODO()
  cli := client.NewClient(rpcURL, nil)
  defer cli.Close()

  // Assume `child` is defined as in the beginning
  accountEntry := getAccountEntry(ctx, cli, child.Address())
  log.Printf("Balance for account %s", child.Address())
  log.Printf("XLM: %s", amount.String(accountEntry.Balance))

  trustlineEntry := getTrustlineEntry(ctx, cli, child.Address(), usdcAsset)
  log.Printf("USDC trustline balance (raw): %d", trustlineEntry.Balance)

>   sacAmount := getSACBalance(ctx, cli, testnetUSDCContractID,

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if this call to `getSACBalance` has a place here.
This just finds out how much of the asset amount is held in contract.
but it doesnt relate to the accountAddress itself, right?

Here we are trying to show that: "I am account G..... I have ___ XLM and ___ USDC"
not sure if there is merit in showing - this is the amount of UDSC in SACs.

      raise RuntimeError(f"Transaction failed: {response.diagnostic_events_xdr}")
    time.sleep(POLL_DELAY_SECONDS * (attempt + 1))
  raise RuntimeError(f"Transaction {hash_} not found after polling")
```

</CodeExample>
</Details>

<Details summary="Retrieving account details">
<CodeExample>

```java
private static long loadNativeBalance(String accountId) throws IOException {
  LedgerKey key = new LedgerKey();
  key.setDiscriminant(LedgerEntryType.ACCOUNT);
  LedgerKeyAccount accountKey = new LedgerKeyAccount();
  accountKey.setAccountID(KeyPair.fromAccountId(accountId).getXdrAccountId());
  key.setAccount(accountKey);

  GetLedgerEntriesResponse response = SERVER.getLedgerEntries(Collections.singletonList(key));
  check(!response.getEntries().isEmpty(), "Account " + accountId + " not found");
  LedgerEntryData data = LedgerEntryData.fromXdr(response.getEntries().get(0).getXdr());
  check(data.getAccount() != null, "Ledger entry missing account data");
  return data.getAccount().getBalance().getInt64();
}
```

```go
import (
  "context"
  "log"

  "github.com/stellar/go/xdr"

  "github.com/stellar/stellar-rpc/client"
  "github.com/stellar/stellar-rpc/protocol"
)

> func getAccountEntry(ctx context.Context, cli *client.Client, address string) *xdr.AccountEntry {

Reviewer 2: we shud probably include these in the stellar-rpc/client. dunno if there is a issue for such helpers in the rpc repo. perhaps we shud create one , if not.

I had to make a few myself
